[Music]
it is the ultimate castaway the marathon
winner on the long journey from New
Guinea
incredibly the female morning gecko has
done away with the need for a mate
[Music]
instead she simply produces eggs that
need no fertilization so one single
female washed up on an island could
start a whole population along with this
extraordinary ability these
thick-skinned and salt resistant geckos
could also survive long sea passages on
rafts and even the force of cyclones but
there is more to the gecko story than
this
[Music]
less than two thousand years ago
something happened that was to
revolutionize the spread of plants and
animals
[Music]
taking to their sailing boats once more
descendants of the Lapita left the
Central Pacific and set off again in
search of new lands into the great
unknown
as pioneers they took everything they
would need to start their lives of fresh
livestock plants for cultivation
[Music]
even the coconut
but they would also have taken a long
list of stowaways
[Music]
like the morning gaku
this lizard was just one cast away which
no longer had to rely on its stamina and
luck to reach new lands it could now
hitch a free ride
[Music]